[music]
Yeah, we good.
>> Okay, folks, we're at capacity. Let's
kick off. I don't want you waiting here
for 25 more minutes before we some
arbitrary deadline. So, welcome. My name
is Matt. Uh I'm a teacher and I suppose
now I teach AI. Um
we have a link up here if you've not
already been to this which is has the
exercises for the um stuff we're going
to do today. This is going to be around
two hours. So we might just sort of kick
off two hours from now. Is that right
Mike?
>> Yeah. Perfect. Um, and the theory behind
this talk or at least the thesis under
which I've been operating for the last
kind of six months or so is that
we all think that AI is a new paradigm,
right? AI is obviously changing a lot of
things. You guys are obviously
interested in this and that's why you've
come to this talk. And
I feel that
when we talk about AI being a new
paradigm, we forget that actually
software engineering fundamentals, the
stuff that's really crucial to working
with humans, also works super well with
AI. And this is what my keynote is on
tomorrow. Really, I'm going to sort of
be fleshing that out a lot more. And in
this workshop, I'm hopefully going to be
able to direct your attention to those
things and uh hopefully show you that
I'm right, but we'll see. Um, can I get
a quick heads up first? How many of you
guys um are coding have ever coded with
AI? Raise your hand if you've ever coded
with AI. Perfect. Okay. Uh, keep your
hand raised.
Uh, let's all uh share those armpits
with the world. Um,
how many of you code every day with AI?
Cool. Okay. Uh, ra keep your hand raised
if you've ever been frustrated with AI.
Okay. Very good. You can put your hands
down. Thank you for that show of
obedience. I really appreciate that. Um,
we are also being live streamed to the
Gilgood room as well. I've not uh did we
send someone up to the Gilgood room to
just check they're okay? Don't know. But
I see you. Uh, and there is a way that
you can participate which is we have the
um a Q&A. We're going to be doing kind I
have a sort of hatred of Q&As's because
they're not very democratic. The mostly
the sort of um most talkative people get
to um get to participate and share. And
so we're going to be going through this
um QA here. So why do we have to wait
till 3:45? The room is packed. The doors
are closed. 100% agree. And so if you
want to uh ask a question, we're going
to be I would like you to pile into this
async and then we can vote on each
other's questions and hopefully get the
best question surface so the for the
entire room to enjoy.
So I want to talk about first the kind
of weird constraints that LLMs have and
those weird constraints are sort of what
we have to base a lot of our work
around. Now,
there's a guy called Dex Hy who runs a
company called Human Layer, and he came
up with this idea, which is that
when you're working with LLMs, they have
a smart zone and a dumb zone. When
you're first kind of like working with
an LM and it's like you just started a
new conversation, you start from
nothing. That's when the LLM is going to
do its best work because in that
situation, the attention relationships
are the least strained. Every time you
add a token to an LLM, it's kind of like
you're adding a team to a football
league. You think of the number of
matches that get added every time you
add a team to a football league. It just
go scales quadratically. And that's
because you have attention relationships
going from essentially each token to the
other that are positional and the sort
of meaning of the individual token. And
so this means that by around sort of 40%
or around I would say around 100k is
kind of my new marker for this because
it doesn't matter whether you're using 1
million uh context window or 200k. It's
always going to be about this.
It starts to just get dumber. So as you
continually keep adding stuff to the
same context window, it just gets dumber
and dumber until it's making kind of
stupid decisions. Raise your hand if
that feels familiar to you. Yeah. Cool.
So this means that we kind of want to
size our tasks in a way that sticks
within the smart zone, right? We don't
want the AI to bite off more than it can
chew. And this goes back to old advice
like Martin Fowler in refactoring uh
like uh the pragmatic programmer talks
about this. Don't bite off more than you
can chew. Keep your tasks small so that
you as a developer, a human developer
don't freak out and don't start acting
and going into the dumb zone.
But how do you tackle big tasks? How do
you take a large task like I don't know
cloning a company or something or just
doing something crazy? And how do you
break it into small tasks so they all
fit into the dumb zone? One way of
course you could do is I mean kind of
what the AI companies maybe want you to
do or the natural way of doing it is
just keep going and going and going. You
end up in the dumb zone charging you
tons of tokens per request. You then
compact back down. We'll talk about
compacting properly in a minute. And you
keep going, keep going, keep going,
compact back down, keep going, keep
going, keep going. And I think that's
doesn't really work very well because
the more sediment, we'll talk about that
in a minute. So the theory here is then,
and this is what I was doing for a
while, is I would use these kind of
multi-phase plans where I would say,
okay, we have this sort of number four
thing here, this large large task. Let's
break it down into small sections so
that we can then kind of chunk it up and
do each little bit of work in the smart
zone. Raise your hand if you've ever
used a multi-phase plan before. Yeah,
really common practice, right? This is
kind of how we've been doing it.
Certainly, this is how I was doing it up
until December last year really.
And any developer worth their salt will
look at this and go, "This is a loop,
right? This is a loop. We've just got
phase one, phase two, phase three, phase
four. Why don't we just have phase n,
right?
Phase n where we essentially just say,
okay, we have, let's say, a plan
operating in the background and then we
just loop over the top of it and we go
through until it's complete. And this is
where um raise your hand if you've heard
of Ralph Wiggum as a software practice.
Okay, cool. Raise your hand if you've
not heard of Ralph Wigum as a software
practice. Actually, that's more like it.
Okay. So there's this idea called Ralph
Wigum uh which is kind of um sort of
based on this which is essentially
all you need to do is sort of specify
the end of the journey where you just
say okay we create a PRD a product
requirements document to say okay let's
describe where we're going and then we
just say to the AI just make a small
change make a small change that gets us
closer and closer to there and Ralph
works okay but I prefer a little bit
more structure so that's kind where we
got to in terms of thinking about the
smart zone. And that's kind of where I
want you to first start thinking about
here. Another weird constraint of LLM is
LLM are kind of like the guy from
Momento, right? They just continually
forget. They could just keep resetting
back to the base state. Let me pull up
this diagram.
I sort of I I I really should use
slides, but I just prefer just like
randomly scrolling around a infinite uh
TL draw canvas. Thank you, Steve.
Um,
so let's say another concept I want you
to have is that every session with an
LLM kind of goes through the same
stages. You have first of all the system
prompt here. This gray box here is
essentially the stuff that's always in
your context. You want this to be as
small as possible because if you have a
ton of stuff in here, if you have 250k
tokens, like I have seen people put in
there, then that you're just going to go
straight into the dumb zone without even
being able to do anything. So you want
this to be tiny. [snorts] You then go
into a kind of exploratory phase. This
blue is sort of where the coding agent
is going out and exploring the codebase.
Then you go into implementation and then
you go into testing and kind of making
sure that it works, running your
feedback loops and things like this.
Raise your hand if that feels familiar
based on what you've done. Yep. Sort of
the like the the main cornerstones of
any session. And when you clear the
context, you go right back to the system
prompt. Bof, you go right back there. So
you delete everything that's come
before.
And raise your hand if you've heard of
compacting as well. Yeah. Okay. There
are some people who've not heard of
compacting. So let's just quickly show
what that means. For instance, I've just
been having a little chat with my LLM.
Uh, I want to make sure we sort of, you
know, just cover the basics so we're all
sort of on the same wavelength here.
I've just been having a chat with my
LLM. I've been talking about a thing
that I want to build. How's the font
size? Should I bump it up? Folks in the
back. Bump bump bump bump bump.
I'm using claw code for this session,
but you don't need to use claw code. Uh,
in fact, it's often nice not to use claw
code. Um, so I've been having a chat
with the LM just sort of planning out
what I'm going to do next. It's asking
me a bunch of questions and I can I
highly recommend you do this. There's
this tiny little status line here that
tells me how many tokens I'm using. The
exact number of tokens I'm using. Um I
have a article on my website AI Hero if
you want to copy this. This is oh wow
that is that shakes doesn't it? Um, this
is essential information on every coding
session because you need to know exactly
how many tokens you're using so that you
know how close you are to the dump zone.
Absolutely essential. And so let's watch
it. So I've got two options. I can
either clear
and go back to nothing or I can compact.
And when I compact then it's going to
squeeze all of that conversation which
admittedly isn't very much into a much
smaller space. And this in diagram terms
kind of looks like this where you take
all of the information from the session
and you essentially create a history out
of it, a written record of what
happened.
And devs love compacting for some
reason, but I hate it. I much prefer my
AI to behave like the guy from Momento
because this state is always the same.
Always the same. Every time you do it,
you clear and you go back to the
beginning. And so if you're able to do
that and you're able to optimize for
that, then you're in a great spot.
So that's kind of the two things I want
you to think about with LLM, the two
constraints that we're working with.
They have a smart zone and a dumb zone.
And they're like the guy from Momento.
So let's take a look at the first
exercise. And I'm while I'm doing this,
the way I want this to work is I'm going
to sort of show you how um I'm going to
be sort of walking through it up here.
And I want you folks to be kind of like
tapping away and doing things as well.
So that was just a little lecture bit.
Let's now actually get and do some
coding. For anyone who arrived late or
anyone in the Gilgood room, uh go to
this link,
this link up here
to see the exercises and clone the repo.
You absolutely do not have to. You can
just watch me do it if you fancy it. But
let's go there myself and let's see what
exercises await us.
So essentially, I've built a um this is
from my course. This is a uh a course
management platform essentially a kind
of CMS for instructors for students and
this is what we're going to be building
a feature in. So I'm going to take you
from essentially the idea for the
feature all the way up to building a PRD
for the feature all the way up to
implementing the feature and hopefully
you can take inspiration from this
process and use it in your own work. So
uh let's kick off. episode.
We're going to start by using a skill
which is very close to my heart. It's
the grill me skill. And this grill me
skill is wonderfully small, wonderfully
tiny. And it helps prevent one of I
think the main issues when you're
working with an AI, which is
misalignment.
The uh the sort of silent idea that I'm
talking against here, that I'm arguing
against is the specs to code movement.
Has anyone heard of the specs to code
movement? Raise your hand. It's not
really a movement. I suppose it's just
sort of people saying specs to code. Um,
what it is is people say, okay, you can
write a program or you want to build an
app. The best way to build that app is
to take some specifications.
So to write some sort of like document
and then turn that document into code.
So just turn it into code. How do you do
that? You pass it to AI. if there's
something wrong with the resulting code.
You don't look at the code, you look
back at the specs, you change the specs
and you sort of just keep going like
this. This is kind of like vibe coding
by another name where you're essentially
ignoring the code. You don't need to
worry about the code. You just sort of
keep editing the specs and eventually
you just keep going. And I tried this. I
really tried it and it sucks. It doesn't
work because you need to keep a handle
on the code. You need to understand
what's in it. You need to shape it
because the code is your battleground.
And so
this again is where we're going. Let's
let's get some exercises. So what I'd
like you to do is go to this page, the
the grill me skill. And inside the repo
here, we have a Slack message
from our pal. Where is it? It's in the
root of the repo. And it's under
where is it?
Clientbrief.mmd.
It's a Slack message from Sarah Chin.
For some reason, the Claude always
chooses Sarah Chen as the name. I don't
know why. Um, it's saying that in
Cadence, our um course platform, our
retention numbers are not great.
Students sign up, do a few lessons, then
they drop off. I'd love to add some
gamification to the platform. And so,
when you're presented with an idea like
this, you need to find some way of
turning it into reality. Let's say Sarah
Chen is your client. You're on a tight
budget. You need to get this done fast.
How do you go and do it? Um, raise your
hand if you would. um enter plan mode
when you're doing this. Anyone a big
user of plan mode? Yep. Um let's
actually shout out quickly any other
ideas about what you would do with this
or raise your hand if you what would be
your first port of call.
>> Yeah,
>> sorry.
>> Yes, exactly. Let's imagine that Sarah
Chen's gone on hold. You have no idea,
right? Uh she's just posted this thing.
You need to action it before you go.
Well, my first protocol is I go for this
particular skill. I'm going to clear my
context.
I'm going to uh get rid of you. You
don't need to be there. And I'm going to
say
um I'm going to invoke a skill, which is
the grill me skill. Let's quickly check.
Raise your hands if you don't know what
this is.
Cool. Oh, sorry. Sorry. Let me be more
specific. Raise your hands if you don't
know what I'm doing here when I uh do a
forward slash and then type something.
Anyone everyone kind of understand what
that is? I'm invoking a skill. I'm
invoking the grill me skill. And what
I'm going to do is I'm going to say
grill me and I'm going to pass in the
client brief.
So now the LLM really has only a couple
of things here. It just has the skill
and it has the description of what I
want to do.
And this is virtually how I start every
piece of work with AI. And while it's
exploring the codebase,
I'm just going to show you what the
grill me skill does. So this is inside
the repo so you can check it out. It's
extremely short. Interview me
relentlessly about every aspect of this
plan until we reach a shared
understanding. Walk down each branch of
the design tree, resolving dependencies
one by one. For each question, provide
your recommended answer. Ask the
questions one at a time. uh blah blah
blah. What this does, and what I noticed
when I was working with AI, especially
in plan mode actually, is it would
really eagerly try to produce a plan for
me. It would say, "Okay, I think I've
got enough. I'm just goof plan."
And what I found was that
I was really trying to find the words
for this for for what I wanted instead
of that. And Frederick P. Brooks in the
design of design he has a great quote uh
talking about the design concept when
you're working on something new with
someone when you're uh all trying to
build something together
then there's this shared idea that's
shared between all participants and that
is the design concept and that's what I
realized I needed with Claude I needed
I needed to reach a shared understanding
I didn't need an asset I didn't need a
plan I needed to be on the same
wavelength as the AI as my agent. And
this is an extremely effective way of
doing it. So hopefully there we go.
Nice. It has done its exploration. First
of all, it's invoked a sub agent which
spent uh 97 93.7K tokens on Opus.
Um and it's asked me the first question.
Cool. We can see that even though the
sub agent burned a ton of tokens, I
haven't actually um uh increased my
token usage that much. Raise your hand
if you don't know what sub aents are.
It's an important question. Everyone
kind of clear what sub aents are? Okay,
I'll give a brief definition which is
that this this sub aents thing here,
this explore sub agents, it has
essentially gone and called another LLM
which has an isolated context window
and then that LLM has reported a summary
back. So a sub aent is kind of like a
delegation. You're delegating a task to
a sub agent. It goes eagerly does all
the thing, explores a ton of stuff and
then just drip feeds the important stuff
back up to the orchestrator agent to the
parent agent. So, okay. So, hopefully
you guys have seen the same thing. It's
done on explore. And we now have our
first question. Points economy. What
actions earn points and how much? Okay.
At this point, you can ask it, by the
way, questions to um deepen your
understanding of the repo. I obviously
know this repo really well because I
wrote it, but you might not um know
what's going on. So, let's say my
recommendation, keep it simple, twopoint
sources to start. What's so nice about
this is that not only does it give us a
question that kind of aligns us here, we
get a recommendation, too. And often
what I'll find is the AI's
recommendations are really good. And so
I'll just say skip video, watch events,
they're noisy and gameable. I agree.
Sarah's asked while keep lessons in the
bread and butter.
Yeah,
looks good, pal.
[snorts] Now, what I usually do is I
usually dictate to the AI. I'm usually
actually chatting to the AI instead of
uh typing here, but uh this is a
relatively new laptop and I couldn't get
my dictation software working on it um
because Windows is crap. Um
so should points be retroactive? There
are existing lessons progress records.
We're completing out timestamps. This is
a really nasty question, right? Should
we actually go back and backfill all of
the lesson progress events? This is a
kind of question that you need to be
aligned on if you're going to fulfill
the feature properly. This is not
something I considered and Sarah Chen
certainly didn't consider. Do I want it
to be retroactive? H. Let's actually do
a vote inside here. Should we go back
and backfill all the records? Raise your
hand if you think we should backfill all
the records.
Raise your hand if you think we
shouldn't backfill all the records.
There are a lot of uh fence sitters in
the room. I'm going to say,
you know, this is the kind of discussion
you're sort of having with the AI.
You're getting further aligned. Yes, I'm
just going to go with this
recommendation because I'm lazy.
Notice, too, how I'm able to keep in the
loop here with AI. I'm not, you know,
it's it's pinging me these questions
pretty quickly.
I'm not having to go off and check
Twitter or something. Levels. What's the
progression curve? Yeah, that looks
about right, for instance. Yes. Okay. So
hopefully you should be able to go and
um kind of work through this with the AI
[clears throat] and essentially try to
reach an alignment. And this grill me
skill this can last a long time. This
can I've had it ask me 40 questions.
I've had it ask me 80 questions. I've
had some people it asks a hundred
questions to literally you're sat there
for an hour chatting to the AI. And what
you end up with is essentially this
conversation history that works really
nicely and works really nicely as an
asset of the design concept that you're
creating. This can also function like
this. You can uh have a meeting with
someone who's a maybe a domain expert.
Maybe I have a meeting with Sarah. I
feed that meeting transcript into uh I
don't know Gemini meetings or whatever
you guys are using. You take that, you
feed it into a grilling session and you
grill through the assumptions that you
didn't have. So, this ends up being a
really nice kind of um a really nice way
of just taking inputs from the world and
then just turning and validating them.
So, okay,
let's see. I really want to get to the
end of this, but I also don't want to
just like be sat here talking to the AI
in front of you for uh a thousand days.
So, I'm just going to say yes.
Let's see what happens. So, I tell you
what. Um, while you guys sort of have a
little fiddle with this locally, let's
start a little Q&A session now. And
let's see how's this going to work. Can
we keep the door closed? I'll turn up
the microphone. It's quite noisy. Uh,
let's see. Mike, can we uh Door closed?
Oh, it has been closed. Mark has
answered. Beautiful. So, what I'd like
you to do is there any air con? Yeah,
there is some air con. I think there is
some air con you guys aren't being lit
here. I'm being I'm being fried alive
here. Uh so what I'd like you to do is
go on to the slideo which you can join
here. Have a if if you're not taking the
exercise, go on to the slideo, have a
little fiddle and vote on some good
questions. I'm just going to chat to the
AI for a second uh until we reach a
stopping point. So do streaks earn
points?
Um, streaks are standalone.
Let's see what else it comes up with.
Where does gamification UI live? Let's
have it in the dashboard.
I'm just going to scan these and blast
through them basically. So, how we doing
with our slido?
Okay.
Have I tried specit open spec or
taskmaster instead of the grill me
skill? Do I find them more verbose or a
structured alternative? This is a great
question. So there are a ton of
different frameworks out there that
allow you to um sort of build up this
planning process for you. I personally
believe you at at this stage when
there's no clear winner, when there's no
kind of like one true way and when
things are changing all the time, you
need to own as much of your planning
stack as you possibly can. What I've
noticed and a lot of my students is
they tend to overuse a certain stack.
they get into trouble and they because
they don't own the stack and they don't
have observability over the whole thing,
they just go, "This isn't working. This
sucks." Whereas if um if you have
control over the whole thing, then at
least you know how to fix it or
potentially know how to fix it. So I'm
even though I'm sort of giving you uh a
stack basically, I believe in inversion
of control and you should be in control
of the stack.
So, can I press zero, please?
>> Sorry.
>> Sorry, that was a lot of sort of
mumbling. Can I
>> feedback? You have four options on the
bottom of you to hit dismiss.
>> Thank you.
I'm so sorry. [laughter]
Well, you didn't want to give Claude
good feedback. Why? What's wrong with
you?
Okay, cool.
Uh many of the questions asked by the
grill me skill are not necessarily
appropriate for a developer rather a PO
in larger teams who should use it. Yeah.
Um raise your hand if um you've ever
done pair programming. Anyone ever done
pair programming? Right. Keep put your
hands down and raise your hand again if
you've ever done a pair programming
session with an AI.
Right. How did it go? Was it good? You
enjoy it? I think pair programming
sessions with AI is a great idea because
you've got a third person in the room
who will relentlessly quiz you and ask
you questions. It should if you don't
know the answer, it should be you, the
domain expert and the AI in the same
room. If you have a question about
implementation, it should be you, a
fellow developer and the AI in the same
room. You know, you can be sort of
working through these questions in your
team. And I think actually we're going
to look at implementation in a bit and
we're going to see how you can make
implementation so much faster. And but I
think the really crucial decisions, the
ones you need humans for, you actually
need a lot of humans and it doesn't
really matter how many humans are in
there. You can actually throw a bunch
like a kind of like mob programming with
AI essentially.
Uh what's my favorite metaprompting
tool? I think I kind of answered that.
Uh there's no air con. Let's just live
with it. Uh, how do I use the
conversation as an asset after the grill
me session? Well, we're going to get
there.
Um, okay. So, I really want to
I want to speed this up sort of
artificially.
>> Just what
>> I This is the thing. So, someone just
said, "Okay, Ralph loop this." But this
is crucial because I can't loop over
this, right? I can't um I think of there
as being two types of tasks in the AI
age where you have human in the loop
tasks where a human needs to sit there
and do it which is this we are the human
in the loop with multiple humans in the
loop and there are AFK tasks there are
tasks where the human can be away from
the keyboard and it doesn't matter
implementation as we'll see can be
turned into an AFK task but planning
this alignment phase has to be human in
the loop has to be.
So, I've got to do it, unfortunately.
Um, I don't know. Uh, give me a long
list of all your recommendations.
I'm running a workshop right now,
so I artificially
need you to
pull more weight.
So, let's see what it does. Uh, let's
answer a couple more questions while
it's doing its thing.
What is my opinion on PMS or other
non-dev rolls vibe coding task?
Um, I'm going to return to this later. I
think I'm going to leave this
unanswered.
A bit of mystery.
I notice I'm not using the ask user
questions UI for grill me. Why? Um,
there's a specific uh UI that you can
bring up in claude code which I'll
answer this just quickly. uh ask me a
question using the ask user question
tool. [snorts] And this UI um is just
sort of broken in Claude and I really
hate it.
You notice I'm using Claude, but I don't
like Claude very much. Like you you
really are free with this method to
choose any um system you like. And this
is what the UI looks like. It's very
pleasing when you first encounter it,
but then you realize it is actually
broken in a ton of different ways.
All right, what did it come back with?
Oh, blime me.
Oh, no.
So,
while this is doing its thing, let me do
some teaching in the meantime. The plan
here is that we take our grill me skill
and we need to essentially find some way
of turning it into a destination.
We need to go down to the uh we
essentially need to we're figuring out
the shape of this. That's what we're
doing. figuring out the shape of the
tasks during the grilling session. And
in order to turn it into a bunch of
actionable actions for the AI, we
essentially need to figure out the
destination. We need to know where we're
going. We need to know the shape of this
entire thing. So I think of there as
being two essential documents that we
need. We need a document that documents
the destination.
Oh no,
it's so not bright enough. There we go.
Still not bright enough. There we go. We
need something to document the
destination and we need something to
document the journey. In other words, we
need something a document that's going
to figure out what this even looks like
in all of its user stories and figure
out a definition of done. And then we
need to figure out what the split looks
like. So that's where we're going to go
to next. So once we finish with the
grilling session.
Yeah, it looks great. Fantastic. I love
it. It answered it answered 22 of its
own questions. There you go. That's
quite representative of what a grilling
session looks like.
So at this point now I have used 25k
tokens and all of that or loads of that
stuff is gold. I want to keep that
around. I've I've got 25k great tokens
there. And what I want to do is kind of
summarize it in some kind of destination
document. So this is um the next
exercise where we're going to
uh we're going to write a product
requirements document. And the product
requirements document or the PRD is
essentially that's its function. It's
the destination document. And it sort of
doesn't matter what shape it is. I've
got a shape that I prefer and that I
quite like, but you can just choose your
own shape or whatever your company uses.
And all we're really doing is too
worried about that.
All we're really doing is summarizing
the design concept that we have so far.
And
the So let let's try this. So I'm going
to initiate this. I'm going to say zoom
all the way to the bottom. All I'm going
to do is just say write a PRD.
And we can take a look at that skill
now.
Write a PRD.
So this skill,
it does a few things. It first asks the
user for a long detailed description of
the problem. You can use write a PRD
without grilling first, but I just like
to grill first and then write the PRD
afterwards. Then you can um get it to
explore the repo, which we've kind of
already done. Then we get it to
interview the user relentlessly. So have
a kind of grilling session again. And
then we start um putting together a PRD
template. So this is available in the
repo if you want to check it out. And
essentially this is what it looks like.
We've got some problem statements, the
problem the user is facing, the solution
to the problem, and a set of user
stories. And these user stories sort of
define what this is. You know, as you
you guys have probably seen things like
this if you've been a developer at all.
um you know there are cucumber is a
language you can use to write these in
or we just sort of um uh write them
ourselves essentially. Then we have a
list of implementation decisions that
were made and a list of crucially
testing decisions too. So
I'm going to run this. Okay. And so it's
finished its thing. Ah
Windows let me close the thing. Thank
you. I don't know why I bought a Windows
laptop. I think I just I like the
challenge. Um
[clears throat] so the first thing that
it's going to give me are a set of
proposed modules it wants to modify.
Now there's a deep reason why I'm
thinking about this. So this is at this
stage we have an idea. We have sort of
speced out the idea. We've reached a
sort of understanding of what we're
trying to do. And then we need to start
thinking about the code because at this
point we need to this is not specs to
code. This is not where we're ignoring
the code. We actually keep the code in
mind throughout the whole process. And
the way I like to do this is I like to
just sort of think about a set of
proposed modules to modify. We're going
to return to this this idea of
continually designing your system and
keeping your system in mind. So it's
it's saying recommend test for the
gamification service is the only deep
module with meaningful logic. These
modules look right. Yeah, that's good.
And it's going to ping out a PRD.
Now for ease of setup, I've got it so
that it creates a set of issues locally.
So it's just going to create essentially
a PD inside this issues directory. But
the way I usually do it, and you can
check this out yourself, is you can go
to my um essentially what I consider my
work repo, which is
github.com/mattpocco/course
video manager up here. And in here, this
is essentially a app that I create um
that I use all the time to record my
videos and things like this. I think
I've recorded like I pulled down the
sets. I think I've recorded like a
thousand videos in here or something
nuts. Um, and you can see here that it's
got 744 closed issues. And this is
essentially all of the uh PRDs and all
of the implementation issues that I've
put into here. So, this is how I usually
like to do it. [clears throat]
So, that's what I'm doing with the There
we go. Yeah, I'm just going to say yes
and uh
and get that issue out. Let's see. It is
inside here. So, we got the problem
statement. people sign up for courses,
uh the solution, the user stories, uh 18
user stories, looks nice, some
implementation decisions, level
thresholds, etc. This is enough
information. We've kind of clarified
where we're going and what we're doing.
So that's what we do. We essentially
have a grilling session and we've
created an asset out of it. Now, raise
your hand. Should I be reviewing this
document? Raise your hand if you think I
should be reviewing the document.
Yeah, I don't I don't look at these. I
don't look at these. The reason I don't
look at these is because what am I
testing at this point? What am I like
when I read it?
What am I testing? What am I what are
the failure modes I'm trying to test
for? I know that LLMs are great at
summarization because they are they're
really good at summarization. I have
reached the same wavelength as the LLM,
right? Using the grill meme skill, we
have a shared design concept. So if I
have a shared design concept, all I'm
doing is I'm just essentially checking
the LLM's ability to summarize.
So I don't tend to read these.
Let's have let's have a Q&A because I
can feel you guys are itching for it.
And then I think we might have like I
don't know just a five minute comfort
break just to rest my voice and so you
can catch up with the exercises for a
minute if that's all right. So let's
have a little Q&A sesh. Uh, if I don't
like clawed code, which one do I
actually like? Um,
uh, have you ever heard the phrase, um,
uh, democracy is the worst way to run a
country apart from all the other ways?
That's how I feel about claw code.
Uh, we've answered that one.
Uh,
what's your thoughts on developers
needing to very deeply understand
Typescript now that fix the TS make no
mistakes exist? I don't understand the
phrasing of this but I think I
understand the meaning which is that
I believe that code is very important
and this is kind of going to feed
through the whole session and that bad
code bases make bad agents. If you have
a garbage codebase you're going to get
garbage out of the agent that's working
in that codebase. We'll talk more about
that in a bit. And so I think
understanding these tools very deeply,
understanding code deeply is going to
make you a much much better developer
and get more out of AI.
Uh, and that answers that question too.
Sweet.
Uh, get out of it. There you are.
Now that we have 1 million tokens
available, do we ever actually want to
take advantage of that?
I've noticed that the dumb zone has
become less dumb lately. Okay, great
question. This goes back to our kind of
initial idea on the dumb zone.
Uh
I um I recorded my Claude Code course
using a 200k context window and on the
day that I launched the course, they
announced the 1 million context window.
My take on this is that what Claude code
did is they essentially just did this.
They shipped a lot more dumb zone to you
essentially. Now, this is good for tasks
where you want to retrieve things from a
large context window. If you want to
pass five copies of War and Peace or
something to it, and you want to find
out all the things that uh
uh I can't remember a character from War
and Peace. Uh why did I start with that?
It's good for retrieval. It's less good
for coding. So, I consider that it is
about 100K at the moment is the smart
zone. the smart zone will get bigger and
that will be a really nice improvement.
So folks, we're going to take like a
five minute comfort break if that's all
right just for my voice and so maybe you
can have a little move around or
something or grab a drink. I can just
notice some sleepy eyes and I want to
make sure that we're awake for the next
bit if that's all right. So we'll take
five minutes and I'll see you back here
then. All right.
So we have our PR which I'm not going to
read a kind of destination document.
Let's quickly scan for any good
questions before we zoom ahead.
And
rediscovering the role of software
engineer in today's world. Top three
disciplines you recommend. Um, taekwondo
is good. I've heard I' have no idea how
to answer this question. Um, thank you
for asking it though. Um, top three
disciplines I recommend.
>> I mean, sorry,
>> plumbing.
>> Plumbing is a good one. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I don't know if that's a
discipline. The plumbers I've hired are
not usually very disciplined. Um,
right.
So, okay, we now have our destination.
Okay. Um,
perfect.
So, how do we actually get to our
destination? How do we We have a sort of
vague PRD. How do we split it so that we
don't put things into the dump zone? In
other words, we have our number four.
How do we split it into this kind of
multi-phase plan? Well, probably what
you would do at this point is you would
say, "Okay, Claude, give me a
multi-phase plan that gets me to this
destination." Right? That sort of makes
sense. This is what we've been doing
before, but I have um a sort of better
way of doing it now, which is that
I like creating a canban board out of
this. Raise your hand if you don't know
what a canban board is.
Cool. Okay. A camon board is essentially
just a set of tickets that you put on
the wall that have blocking
relationships to each other. So, we're
going to see what it kind of looks like
here. This is how we've worked um as
developers for a long time, really since
agile came around. And what it does, we
can see it here. It has proposed that we
split this setup into um five different
tasks. Here we have the first one which
is the schema and the gamification
service. Yeah, that looks pretty good.
This is blocked by nothing. And we can
even see here that it's a it's given it
a type of AFK, too. Remember I talked
about human in the loop and AFK earlier.
This is an AFK task. This is something
we can just pass off to an agent to do
its thing. Streak tracking. Okay, that
looks good.
Uh then wire points and streaks into
lessons quiz completion. This is blocked
by one and two. Retroactive backfill.
This is blocked only by one. And then
this one here is blocked by all of the
tasks. Cool.
H. Now I consider this, you could say,
why don't we just make this sort of
generation of the issues? Why don't we
just hand that over to the AI? Why do I
need to be involved here? Right? Because
it's given us quite a good selection of
tools here. Why do I need to review this
and sort of figure out what's next? Now,
my take here is that this is really
cheap to do, like very quick to do once
I've done the PR. And I can immediately
see some issues here.
There's a really, really important
technique when you're kind of figuring
out what the shape of this journey
should look like. And
it sort of comes to this very classic
idea uh which comes from pragmatic
programmer called tracer bullets or
vertical slices.
and traceable. It's really transformed
the way I think about actually
getting AI to pick its own tasks.
Systems have layers, right? There are
layers in your system. These might be
different deployable units. You might
have a database that lives somewhere.
You might have an API that lives maybe
close to the database but in a separate
bit. You might have a front end that
lives somewhere totally different like a
CDN. Or within these deployable units,
you might have different layers within
those. In for instance the codebase that
we're working in, we have a ton of
different services servers. We have a
quiz service, a team service, user
service, coupon service, course service.
And these services have dependencies on
each other. So they're kind of like
individual layers. Well, what I noticed
is that AI loves to code horizontally.
So it loves to code layer by layer. So
in other words, in phase one, it will do
all of the database stuff, all of the
schema, all of the, you know, all the
stuff related to that unit. Then it will
go into phase two and do all of the API
stuff. Then it will add the front end on
top of that.
Does can anyone tell me what's wrong
with that picture? Why is that not a
good thing to do? Raise your hand if you
have an answer.
>> Yeah.
>> Have the whole feedback loop.
>> Exactly. You don't get feedback on your
work until you've really started or
completed phase three.
So what you really need to do is you're
not until you get to phase three, you're
not actually testing that all the layers
work together.
You haven't got an integrated system
that you can test against. And so
instead you need to think about vertical
layers. You need to think about thin
slices of functionality that cross all
of the layers that you need to. And this
is a much better way to work, much
better way for the AI to work too
because it means at the end of phase one
or during phase one, it can get feedback
on its entire flow. So what this means
to me
is inside the PRD to issues skill up
here I have got break a PRD into
independently grabbable issues using
vertical slices traceable it's written
as local markdown [snorts] files we
first locate the PRD
uh again explore the codebase if this is
a fresh session we draft vertical slices
so we break the PRD into tracer bullet
issues a traceable bullet by the way is
Uh, essentially when you're like an
anti-aircraft gunner, it's quite a
violent idea actually, uh, and you're
looking up in the sky and it's night, if
you're just shooting normal bullets, you
have no idea what you're firing at,
right? You could just be, you know, you
see the plane, but you don't see where
your bullets are going. Tracer bullets
is they attach a tiny bit of
phosphoresence or phosphor or something
to make it glow as it goes. So, this
means that every sixth bullet or
something, you actually see a line in
the sky. So, you have feedback on where
you're aiming. So this is what this is
the idea here is that we increase our
level of feedback and we get near
instant feedback on what we're building
because without that the AI is kind of
coding blind until it reaches the later
phases. We've got some vertical slice
rules. We quiz the user and then we
create the issue files. So what I see
here is that even though I've I've told
it to do vertical slices, it's proposing
to
create the gamification service
first on its own. That's just one slice
there. And that to me feels like a
horizontal slice. What I want to see in
the first vertical slice especially is I
want to see the schema changes or some
schema changes. I want to see some new
service being created and I want a
minimal representation of that on the
front end. So I want it to go through
the vertical slices, not just the
horizontal. Does that make sense? Okay.
So I'm going to give the AI a
rollicking.
Uh bad boy. No,
I'm not going to waste tokens just being
just memeing. Um so the first slice is
too horizontal. I'll just start with
that and see if it picks it up. Does
that make sense as a concept? And I
think having that um what I really like
about going back to those old books is
that we are really trying to in this day
and age like get
uh verbalize best software practices in
English. And these books, 20-year-old
books have already done that. And it's
an absolute gold mine if you want to
throw that into prompts. But even with
that, it's not going to um not going to
do a perfect job each time. So, award
points for lesson completion visible on
dashboard. Yes, that's a beautiful
vertical slice because it's definitely a
big chunk of stuff. It's doing a lot of
stories there, but we're going to see
something visible at the end and the AI
will then just be able to add to that.
You see why that's preferable to the
first one. Cool. Uh, looks great.
So, we're getting closer now. And anyone
following at home as well, you're not at
home, but you get the idea. um we'll
hopefully see the same thing too and
start developing the same instincts.
Let's open up for questions just while
I'm sort of creating these GitHub issues
or not GitHub issues uh local issues.
When will I stop using Windows? Never.
What is your uh Okay, we'll get to that
later.
How does AI um decide when to stop
grilling? Because AI can ask
incessantly. Can we have a smarter way
to decide the stop point? Yeah, it does
tend to really um those grilling
sessions can be super intense. And the
thing about these skills is you can tune
them if you want to. If you feel like
the AI is just absolutely hammering you,
hammering you, hammering you, then you
can just tell it to just pull back a
little bit or get it to do, you know,
stop points and that kind of thing. So,
if that's a failure mode that you run
into a lot, then you just, you know,
change the skill.
Uh do I still use uh be extremely
concise, sacrifice grammar for the sake
of concision? Um there was a tip that I
gave folks um five months ago which is
that to basically increase the
readability of your plans. So when
you're using plan mode then you can put
it in your claw.md
and you can say okay yeah approve that.
Let's open up claw.md.
Do I have a claw.md? Maybe I don't. I I
really don't use clawd very much. I'm
just going to put a dummy inside here.
Um when no when talking to me
uh sacrifice grammar for the sake of
concision
and this um prompt was uh really useful
to me when I was reading the plans
because it meant that the plans would
come out and they would be very concise,
really nice, easy to read, often very uh
concise. But I've since dropped this
idea in preference to a grilling session
because what I noticed was it just I
didn't want to read the plans. I wanted
to get on the same wavelength as the
LLM. I wanted it to ask aggressive
questions to me. And when I stopped
reading the plans, I stopped needing
them to be concise. So I think of the
plans really in the destination document
as uh the end state. And I don't need
that end state to be concise. Hopefully
that answers your question.
Uh, what do I think will be the outcome
of the Mexican standoff of future roles
of PMS and other roles converging? Uh, I
have no idea. I'm not a pundit. I have
no idea.
Uh, okay. So, we should uh after a
couple of approvals
uh end up with a set of issues. Now,
these issues that we're creating,
they're designed to be independently
grabbable, which means that this canon
board ends up looking kind of like this
where you have
essentially a set of tickets with a
whole load of independent relationships.
So, this one needs to be done before
this one. This one needs to be done
before this one. And this one, let's say
we got another one over here. This one
needs to be done before this one. This
means that you can start to parallelize.
You can start to get agents working at
the same time on these tasks because
yeah, this one needs to be done first
and then these two
can be grabbed at the same time by
independent agents. Raise your hand if
you've done any kind of parallelization
work with agents. Okay, cool. So this
allows you um to turn those plans into
optimally kind of like into directed
asyclic graphs essentially where you
just are able to um essentially have
three phases here where you have phase
one.
Let me grab move that
uh above this line here you do this one.
Then phase two you do the two below it.
And then phase three you do this third
one. and add it onto there. And when you
think about there could be this could
this is a relatively simple plan but you
could have many different plans
operating all at once. It means that you
can do really nice parallelization and
we'll talk more about that in a bit. But
that's why I prefer a canon board set up
like this to a sequential plan because a
sequential plan can really only be
picked up by one agent. So this where
did it go? Over here.
Yeah, this plan here, this is really
only one loop, right? Only one agent can
work on these because we have numbered
phases and they're not parallelizable.
Does that make sense? Cool.
So, we've got our issues. Ah, come on.
Stop asking me for Oh, no. It's creating
them on GitHub. I really don't want
that.
Oh, no. You fool.
Create them in issues instead.
No, that's not precise enough. Uh, you
fool. Create them in local markdown
files instead referencing the local
version.
Sorry about this.
So, once we get to this point, we
[clears throat] have a bunch of issues
locally that we can start um looping
over and implementing. And it's at this
point that the human leaves the loop.
So, so far,
let me pull up a a proper overview of
this kind of flow that we're exploring
here.
So far,
we have taken an idea,
zoom this in a bit for the folks at the
back,
and we've grilled ourselves about the
idea.
We can skip over research and prototype,
but we've turned that into a PRD into a
destination document. We've then turned
that PRD into a canon board and all of
those steps are human reviewed. And now
the implementation stage, we step back
and we let an agent um work through that
camp board or multiple agents work
through the camp board.
Now, what this means is that yeah, we've
spent a lot of time planning here, but
it means that we've queued up a lot of
work for the agent. We can think of this
as kind of like the day shift and the
night shift. This is the day shift for
the human, right? Planning everything,
getting all the uh all the stuff ready
and then once we kick it over to the
night shift, the AI can just work AFK.
But what does that look like?
Well, so I'm just going to Oh, yeah.
Just allow it. It's perfect.
So this looks like if we head to the
next exercise
which is
uh in fact the last exercise here
running your AFK agent.
Now
I've called this uh Ralph really because
it is a it is essentially a Ralph loop
and this prompt here I want to walk
through this really closely.
The first thing it's doing here is we're
essentially going to run Claude and
we're going to basically try to
encourage it to work um completely AFK.
I'll show you what the sort of script
for this looks like in a minute, but you
say, okay, local issue files from issues
are provided at the start of context.
The way we do that is if you look inside
once.sh SH here inside the repo
we have
uh it's essentially just a bash script
where we grab all of the issues
>> [clears throat]
>> um which are inside markdown files and
we cap them into a local variable. So
that issues variable contains all of the
issues that are in our entire backlog.
Then we grab the last five commits. I'll
explain why in a minute. And then we
grab the prompt and we just run claude
code with permission mode except edits
and then just essentially just pass it
all of the information. This is what the
implement looks like. So that's what a
very very simple version of this sort of
loop looks like. And of course this is
not a loop. This is just running it
once.
The loop is in the AFK version up here
which is uh a fair bit more complicated.
And the crucial part here is we're
running it in Docker sandbox as well. So
I I don't want you to install Docker on
your laptops because we're just going to
be like you need to download a special
image and we're going to tank the
conference Wi-Fi if we do that. So I I
am going to demo this to you, but you um
won't need to run this yourself. But
I'll talk through this in a minute. But
essentially this once loop here,
we're just essentially running one
version of the thing that we're going to
loop again and again and again. So this
is kind of like the human in the loop
version. And this is essential. Running
this again and again is essential
because you're going to see what the
agent does and see how it ends up
working. And any tuning that you need to
add to the prompt, then you can do that.
Let's go to the prompt.
Um,
so local issue files are being passed
in. You're going to work on the AFK
issues only. That makes sense. If all
AFK tasks are complete, output this no
more tasks thing. And then the next
thing, pick the next task. So
what we're doing here is we're
essentially running a backlog or
curating a backlog that our AFK agent is
going to pick up. That's the purpose of
all of these um setups in the beginning
in this uh all the way to this canon
board here. We're just essentially
creating a backlog of tasks for the
night shift to pick up and the night
shift this sort of Ralph prompt here.
It's got its own idea about what a good
task looks like. So next pick up I'm I
did talk about parallelization. I will
show you this later, but this is
essentially a sequential loop here.
we're just going to run one coding agent
at a time. This is a good way to just
sort of um get your feet wet
essentially.
So, it's prioritizing critical bug
fixes, development infrastructure, then
traceable bullets, then polishing quick
wins and refactors. And then we just
have a very simple kind of instruction
on how to complete the task. So, we
explore the repo, use TDD to complete
the task. I'll get to that later.
And we then run some feedback loops. So
let's let's just try this and let's just
see what happens. So good. It's created
the issue files. We should be good to
go. I'm going to cancel out of this. I
clear and I'm going to run
uh where is it? Ralph once.sh. And you
can feel free if you're following along
to do the same thing.
So we can see it's just running Claude
inside here with the prompt and with all
of the issues that have been passed in.
And while it's doing its thing,
you probably have some questions about
this setup and about the decisions that
I've made to essentially delegate all of
my coding to AI, right? So, let's let's
do a quick Q&A while it's uh getting its
feet under.
Uh, okay.
I'm going to just
remove those.
How do you retain negative decisions?
things that you decided against and
ration when persisting the results from
the Grommy session. A great question.
That's a very simple answer which is the
in the PRD uh write a PRD section there
is a stuff at the bottom a section of
the things that are out of scope. So the
things we're not going to tackle in this
PRD which is very important for giving a
definition of done.
Feel free to ping on the slido if you've
got any more questions.
Uh what's my front end workflow? Okay,
that's a great question. I'm gonna I'm
gonna answer that in a minute, I think.
How to deal with agents producing more
code that we can review? How to properly
parallelize and use multiple agents in a
separate way? Okay, that's um there's
two questions there. Um raise your hand
if you feel like you're doing more code
review now than you used to.
Yeah, definitely. Um I don't think
there's a way to avoid this.
If we delegate all of our coding to
agents,
you notice that the implementation here
is really the only AFK bit. We then also
need to QA the work and code review the
work, right? And if we are running these
loops where it's essentially going to
implement four issues in one, it's hard
to pair that with the dictim that you
should keep pull requests small and
self-contained, right? like small
self-contained pull requests means
you're needing to do fewer loops or
shorter loops or something. Or maybe you
do like a big stack of PRs, but that
seems horrible as well. That's still
just more separated code to review. I
don't honestly know what the answer to
this yet. I think we just need to be
ready to be doing more code review
essentially, which is not fun. That's
not a fun thing to say. That's not like
I don't know. I don't feel good saying
that, but I do think it's probably the
the way things are going. It's a great
question.
Uh,
can we grab a couple of questions from
the room as well? Let's not we won't do
the mic, but uh raise your hand if
you've got a question for me
immediately.
>> Yeah.
>> So, the approach looks very linear from
an idea to QA.
Of course, the real world is a lot more
messy. So you have all these ideas that
are in parallel and full picture and
while you're working on something else
comes in.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you deal with the messiness? How
do you feedback?
>> Great question. So the question was if
this all looks great if you're a solo
developer, but actually how do you
implement this in a team? How do you
gather team feedback on this? And my
answer to that is that if you have an
idea up there and essentially the sort
of journey from the idea to the
destination is something you need to
figure out with the team, right? So all
of this stuff up here, this is kind of
like team stuff, you know what I mean?
So if you have an idea and you do a
grilling session on it and you have a
question that you don't know how to
answer, then you need to loop in your
team as we described before. Then you
might need to go, okay, we just need to
build a prototype of this. We need to
actually hash this out. We need
something that the domain experts can
fiddle with. Oh, okay. We might need to
integrate a a third party library into
this. We might need to do some research.
We might need to actually kind of like
um ping this back and forth and find a
third party service that we can get the
most out of. We might need to go back
with the information that we gathered
there to the idea phase. So all the way
up to the sort of PRD and the journey,
that's something you need to involve
your team with. That's something where
these assets are going to be shared and
argued over and you're going to have
requests for comment on them and that
that loop is going to just keep grinding
and grinding until you figure out where
you're going. Once you figure out where
you're going, then you can start doing
the came on board the implementation.
But this is essentially super arguable
and the you'll be bouncing back and
forth between the phases. Does that make
sense? Yeah.
>> Would you not need a PR for your
prototype?
>> Say it again. Sorry.
>> Would you not want to have a PR for your
prototype? The question was, do you want
to go through this whole session just to
sort of create a prototype? Do you not
need a PRD for your prototype as well?
Let's just quickly talk about prototypes
for a second. Um, there was a question
about how do you make this work for
front end?
Like how do you because front end is
like really sensitive to human eyes. You
need human eyes looking at the front end
all the time to make sure that it looks
good. AI doesn't really have any eyes.
It can look at code, but it front end is
multimodal. And so my experiences with
trying to plug AI into um let's say
agent browser or playright MCP to give
it you can give it tools to allow it to
look through a front end and sort of
look at images but in my experience the
um it's not very good at that yet and it
can't create a nice front end in a
mature codebase. It can sort of spit one
out. But what it can do is you say okay
uh I want some ideas on how uh this
front end might look. give me three
prototypes um that I can click between
in a throwaway uh throwaway route that I
can decide which one looks best and you
take the asset of that prototype and you
then feed it back into the grilling
session or you get feedback on it blah
blah blah blah blah answer your question
kind of thing the prototype is just you
know it's messy it's supposed to give
you feedback early on in the process so
that's a great way of working with front
end code great way of looking at
software architecture in general let's
go one more question yeah
>> yes [clears throat] in your system How
do you integrate respecting an
architecture a design with API contracts
and fitting with a larger system
security constraints? All kinds of
conraints like that.
>> Yeah, there's a lot in that question.
The question was how do you conform with
existing architecture? How do you do um
how do you make it conform to the code
standards like of your codebase or
>> Yeah. architecture design API security
rules that constraints your designs.
>> Yeah.
I'm going to answer that in a bit if
that's okay. So hopefully we have
started to get some stuff cooking.
It's just pinging on the explore phase
here.
Tempted to just start running it AFK.
Maybe I will, maybe I won't. Um, what
it's essentially doing is it's exploring
the repo. It's going to then start
implementing based on what we wanted.
Let's actually have one more question
just while it's running. Yeah.
Yeah. So the question was why do you not
get AI to QA?
AI to QA. I just got jargon overload for
a second. Um why do you not get AI to uh
test its own code? Now of course you
absolutely can. And I think while it's
doing while it's cooking here, okay,
it's got a clear picture of the
codebase. It's assessing the issues.
It's doing issue O2 is the next task.
I'm again going to show you that in a
bit. I think the sort of uh because you
definitely should do an automated review
step as part of implementation. So you
have your implementation. You should
then because tokens are pretty cheap and
AI is actually really good at reviewing
stuff. You should get it to review its
own code before you then QA it. I found
that that catches a ton of different
bugs. And
the way that works is I will just do a
little diagram is if you have let's say
an implementation that's sort of like
used up a bunch of tokens in the smart
zone. If you get it to sort of try to do
its reviewing, it's going to be doing
the reviewing in the dumb zone. And so
the reviewer will be dumber than the
thing that actually implemented it. If
we imagine this is the uh let's be
consistent, that's the review. That's
the implementation.
Whereas, if you clear the context,
then you're essentially going to be able
to just review in the smart zone, which
is where you want to be.
Let's see how our implementation is
doing. Okay, good. It's generating a
migration. That looks pretty nice. We're
getting some code spitting out.
And while I'm sort of like, aha, here we
go. TDD.
Let's talk about TDD and then I think
we'll have a little another little
break. TDD I found is absolutely
essential for getting the most out of
agents. Uh raise your hand if uh you
know what TDD is. Cool. Okay. TDD is
testdriven development. What it's
essentially doing is it's doing a
something called red green refactor. And
if you look in the codebase, you'll be
able to find a um a skill which really
describes how to do red green refactor.
and teaches the AI how to do it. So what
it's doing is it's writing a failing
test first. So it's saying, okay, I've
broken down the idea of what I'm doing
and I'm just going to write a single
test that fails and then I need to make
the implementation pass. I have found
that first of all, this adds tests to
the codebase and this this tends to add
good tests to the codebase. And so we've
got this kind of gamification service.
It looks like it's using some existing
stuff to create a test database. Test
fails because the module doesn't exist
yet. Okay, we've confirmed red. And then
it goes and hopefully runs it and it
passes. I found that uh raise your hand
if you've ever had AI write bad tests.
Yeah, it tends to try to cheat at the
tests because it's sort of doing it in
layers. it will do the entire
implementation and then it will do the
entire test layer just below it. Uh I'm
just going to say yes, you're allowed to
use npxv text. And using this technique,
it generally is a lot harder to cheat
because it's sort of instrumenting the
code before it's then writing the code.
So I find that TDD is so so good for
places where you can pull it off. And in
fact, it's so good that I sort of warp
my whole uh technique around getting TDD
to work better. I can see some drooping
eyes. It is so hot in here. You can
imagine how hot it is up here. Let's
take another five minute comfort break.
Let's come back at quarter two. I think
have a nice generous one. And we'll be
back in about six, seven minutes and
I'll talk about how uh I think about
modules, think about constructing a
codebase to make this possible. I've
just been sort of fiddling with the AI
here and we have end up with some with a
commit. So we have something to test.
Issue number two is complete. Here's
what was done. This is kind of what it
looks like when a Ralph loop completes
is you end up with a little summary. Um
and we have now something we can QA
because we did the feedback loops or
because we did the tracer bullets
because we were uh said okay give us
something reviewable at the end of this
we can immediately go and QA it. Now,
there's nothing uh less exciting than
watching someone else QA something, but
hopefully we can have a little play.
Let's just check that it uh works at
all. In fact, before I go there, I just
want to sort of work through what just
happened, which is we see that it's
created some stuff on the dashboard
and it then ran the feedback loops. So,
it then ran the tests and the types.
Now TDD is obviously really important
and it's really important because these
feedback loops are essential to AI
essential to get AI to produce anything
reasonable because without this AI is
totally coding blind right you have to
have to um if if your codebase doesn't
have feedback loops you're never ever
ever going to get decent AI decent
output out of AI and often what you'll
find is that the quality of your
feedback back loops influences how good
your AI can code. Essentially, that is
the ceiling. So, if you're getting bad
outputs from your AI, you often need to
increase the quality of your feedback
loops. We'll talk about how to do that
in a minute.
Now, so it ran uh npm run test, npm ran
type check. It got one type error and it
needed to fix it with a nice bit of
TypeScript magic. Very good. Yeah. Typo
level thresholds number. Okay.
You see why I stopped teaching
Typescript because just AI knows
everything now. Um,
so and it ran the tests and it passed
and it's looking good. So we now end up
with 284 tests in this repo. Pretty
good.
I I do find uh front end really hard to
test here. We're essentially just
testing the service. So we've created a
gamification service if we look up here
and then we have a test for that
service. You can see the the service and
the test itself. Now, if I was doing
code review here, I would then go to re
I would first go to review the tests,
make sure the tests were testing
reasonable things and then go and kind
of review the code itself just to make
sure that it's it's not doing anything
too crazy, right? The essential thing is
I need to actually um look at the
dashboard. I'm going to log in as a
student. Oh, if it'll let me. Maybe it
won't let me. Come on, son. There we go.
Let's log in as Emma Wilson. Head into
courses.
Uh, let's say I've got an introduction
to TypeScript.
Continue learning.
Uh, yes, I completed this lesson.
Something went wrong. I imagine it's
because I don't have
uh SQLite error. I don't have the right
table. So, I need a table point events.
Point events is a strange table name.
I'm not sure quite what it was thinking
there. Uh, let's suspend. Let's run uh
npmdb migrate or push, I think.
Can't remember which one it was, but you
kind of get the idea, right? I I'm not
going to subject you to uh watching me
do QA because it's so dull. Um but at
this point, I would essentially go back
in. I would um let me open the project
back up.
Uh, and I would this this is a crucial
moment. Um, and it's so important to um
QA it manually here because QA Oh dear.
Oh dear. What's going wrong? There we
go. QA is how I then um impose my
uh opinions back onto the codebase, how
I impose my taste. What you'll often
find is that um there are teams out
there who are trying to automate
everything like every part of this
process and they will tend to
uh if you try to like automate the sort
of creation of the idea, automate uh the
QA, automate the research, automate the
prototype, you end up with uh apps that
I feel just lack taste and are bad.
maybe they just don't work or they they
don't even work as intended or there's
just no AI. You need a human touch when
you're building this stuff because
without that you just end up with slop
and we are not producing slop here.
We're trying to produce high quality
stuff and so that's what the QA is for.
So I'm going to do two things in this
final section which is I'm going to
first tell you how to
there's probably a question in your mind
here which is let's say I have a
codebase that I'm working on and it's a
bad codebase. It's a codebase that's
like really complicated uh that AI just
never does good work in and maybe
actually most humans that go into that
codebase don't do good work. How what
how do I improve that codebase? And the
second thing is I'll show you my setup
for parallelization.
So let's go with um bad code first.
Now where is it? Where's the diagram?
Here it is.
In his book um the philosophy of
software design, John Alistster talks
about
the ideal type of module.
And let's imagine that you have a
codebase that looks like this. Each of
these uh blocks here are individual
files. And these files export things
from them. You know, they have um things
that you pull from the files that you
then use in other things. And so you
might have these weird dependencies
where this file over here might rely on
this file or might rely on that file for
instance. Now, if these files are small
and they don't kind of ex like export
many things, then John would call these
shallow modules essentially where
they're not very um they kind of look
like uh this. If I actually no I can't
can't make a good diagram of it. They're
essentially lots and lots of small
chunks. Now this is hard for the AI to
navigate because it doesn't really
understand the dependencies between
everything. It can't work out where
everything is. You know it has to sort
of manually track through the entire
graph and go okay this relies on this
one relies on this one. This one relies
on this one.
And it's then also hard to test this as
well because where do you draw your test
boundaries here? Do you test each module
individually?
Like just literally draw a test
boundary. No, don't do that. Around this
one and then maybe another test boundary
around the next one and then the next
one
or should you sort of do big groups of
it? Should you say, okay, we're going to
test all of these related modules
together and just sort of, you know,
hope and pray that they work.
Now [sighs] this means that if I think
that bad tests mostly look like that
where the AI essentially tries to sort
of wrap every tiny function in its own
test boundary and then just sort of test
that those individually work. But what
that does is it means that when let's
say this module over here calls those
two. So it depends on both of these.
Then this module might misorder the
functions or there might be sort of
stuff inside that poor module that's
worth testing on its own. And if you
then wrap this in a test boundary, what
do you do? Do you mock the other two
modules? How does that work?
So actually figuring out how to um build
a codebase that is easy to test is
essential here because if our codebase
is easy to test then our code our
feedback loops are going to be better
and the AI is going to do better work in
our codebase. Does that make sense? So
what does a good codebase looks like?
Look like well not like that. It looks
like this
where you have
what John Asterhout calls deep modules.
Modules that have a little interface on
there that expose a small simple
interface that have a lot of
functionality inside them. Now
what this means is that these are easy
to test because you just let's say that
there's a dependency between this one
and this one. My arrow working? Yeah,
there we go.
Then
what you do is you just wrap a big test
boundary around that one module around
this one up here. And you're going to
catch a lot of good stuff
because there's lots of functionality
that you're testing and really the
caller, the person calling the module is
going to have a simple interface to work
from. So it's not not too tricky. That
makes sense. Deep modules versus shallow
modules. This is good. This shallow
version is bad. And what I find is that
unaided
um or if you don't
uh if you don't watch AI carefully, it's
going to produce a codebase that looks
like this. So you need to be really
really careful when you're directing it.
And that's why too is that if we look
inside the PD,
uh where is the PR gone? It's inside the
issues. It's inside the gamification
system. Uh not found. Of course, it's
not. Here it is.
Then I have
uh inside here data model the modules.
So it's specifically saying okay this
gamification service is a new deep
module which we're going to test around.
It's going to have this particular
interface and it's going to have um okay
we're modifying the progress service
too. We're modifying the lesson route
modifying the dashboard roots etc. So,
it's I'm being really specific about the
modules that I'm editing and I'm making
sure that I keep that module map in my
mind at all times throughout the
planning and then throughout the
implementation. That make sense? Very,
very useful. It's useful for one other
reason, too. Not only does it make your
app more testable, but you get to do a
little mental trick.
And I'm going to refill my water while
you wait for what that is.
Uh, let me
Let me get a question from you guys. So,
raise your hands if you feel like.
Uh, if you feel like you're working
harder than ever before with AI.
Yeah. Uh, raise your hands if you feel
like you know your codebase less well
than you used to.
Yeah.
This is a real thing. um because we're
moving fast, because we're delegating
more things, we end up losing a sense of
our codebase. And if we lose the sense
of our codebase, we're not going to be
able to improve it. And we're
essentially delegating the shape of it
to AI. I [snorts] don't think that's
good. But then how do we
how do we make it so that we can move
fast while still keeping enough space in
our brains? I think that this is a way
to do it because what you're doing here
is not only are you thinking about
creating big shapes in your codebase,
big services.
What I think you should do is design the
interface for these modules, but then
delegate the implementation.
In other words, these modules can become
like gray boxes where you just need to
know the shape of them. You need to know
what they do and sort of how they
behave, but you can delegate the
implementation of those modules. I found
this is really nice. I don't necessarily
need to co-review everything inside that
module. I don't necessarily need to know
everything of what it's doing. I just
need to know that it behaves a certain
way under certain conditions and that it
does its thing. So, it's kind of like,
okay, I've got a big overview of my
codebase and I understand kind of the
shapes inside it, understand what the
interfaces all do, but I can delegate
what's inside. I found that has been a
really nice way to retain my sense of
the codebase while preserving my sanity.
Make sense?
And so you might ask, how do I take a
codebase that looks like this and then
turn it into a codebase that looks like
this? How do I deepen the modules? Well,
we have hopefully it's in here. Pretty
sure it is. We have a skill and that
skill is called improve codebase
architecture.
Nice and direct.
Uh let's run it. What this skill is
going to do is it's essentially just
going to do a scan of our codebase and
looking for what's available here. And
feel free to run this yourself if you're
um uh running the exercises. And it's
exploring the architecture, exploring um
essentially how to work within this
codebase. and it's going to attempt to
uh find places to deepen the modules.
Pretty simple. One really cool um thing
that it found here is part of my uh part
of my course video manager app is a
video editor. A video editor built in
the browser, which is really hardcore.
Uh it's a decent bit of engineering. And
I wanted a way that I could wrap the
entire front end all the way to the back
end in like a single big module so that
I could test the fact that I press
something on the front end and it goes
all the way to the back end. And so I
found a way essentially by using a kind
of discriminated union between the two
types here by sort of I was able to use
this uh skill to essentially have a huge
great big module that just tested from
the outside or was testable from the
outside this video editor
infrastructure. And it meant that AI
could see the entire flow, could act on
the entire flow and test on the entire
flow. And honestly, it was just night
and day in terms of the uh ability of AI
to actually make changes because AI
working on a video editor is pretty
brutal if you don't give it good tests.
So that is honestly I if you take one
thing away from today, just try running
this skill on your repo and see what
happens. Let's go to slider. Let's ask a
uh check a couple of questions just
while this is running.
So let's see. Have you tried claude's
auto mode with claude enable auto mode?
Uh that way you can avoid many of the
obvious permission checks. We'll talk
about permission checks in a second. Do
I keep the markdown plans and issues for
later reference?
Okay, this is a great question. So
let's say that you uh have a great idea,
you turn it into a PR
raise and you then implement that PRD
and the PRD is essentially done. Raise
your hand if you keep that information
in the repo. So you turn it into a
markdown file. Raise your hand if you
want to keep that around.
Cool. Okay. And raise your hand if you
if you don't want to keep it around. If
you want to get rid of it as soon as
possible. Yeah. This is I think an
a question that doesn't have a clear
answer. What I'm really scared of
with any documentation decision is that
let's say that we have a PRD for this
gamification system. We keep it in the
repo. We go on, go on, go on. Let's say
a month later, we want some edits to the
gamification system. And we go in with
Claude and it finds this old PR and
says, "Yes, I found the original
documentation for the PRD system." Well,
it turns out that the actual code has
changed so much from the original PRD
that it's almost unrecognizable. The
names of things have changed. The um
file structure has changed. Even the
requirements may have changed. We might
have actually tested it with users. This
is dock rot where the documentation for
something is rotting away in your repo
and influencing claude badly or claude
agents badly. So I tend to not keep it
around. I tend to get rid of it. And for
me because my setup uses GitHub issues,
I just mark it as closed. It can fetch
it if it wants to, but it's got a visual
indicator that it's done. So I tend to
prefer ditching these.
Thoughts on the beads framework from
Steve? Uh I've not tested it, but it
seems like sort of um another way to
manage Canvan boards and issues. Seems
uh very good, but I've not tried it.
Um
[clears throat]
uh let me just quickly check the uh
setup here. Let's take a couple of
questions from the room. Anybody got any
questions at this point about anything
that we've covered so far, especially
this last bit? Yes.
like code. How about migrations? Like
with migration files, we can also squash
them off
>> like database migrations.
>> Yeah,
>> I don't know.
>> I hope that answers your question. I'm
so sorry. No, no, I think database
migrations are a different thing because
you have a sort of running record of
exactly what changed and it's more
deterministic and I think
yeah, it's an interesting analogy. I'm
not sure. Let's talk about it
afterwards.
That's a good way of saying I have no
idea.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Sorry guys. Um I'm just trying to listen
to this guy's question.
>> Yeah. The question the question here is
um should I um in the sort of early
planning stage be trying to optimize the
plan? This is something I actually see a
lot of people doing and it's a really
good um idea. So when you
let's go back to the phases. So let's
say that you have all of these phases
here
and you uh you get to the point where
you've sort of figured out everything
with the LLM. you understand where
you're going. You've created this sort
of journey destination document here.
How do you then uh like should you then
try to optimize and optimize and
optimize that PRD until it's the perfect
PR you can possibly imagine? I don't
think there's a lot of value in that
because I think the journey is really
just sort of a hint of where you want to
go and the place that you need to be
putting the work is in QA and you can
sort of do that AFK I suppose but in my
experience you're not going to get a lot
of juice out of it like it's the the
thing that really matters is getting
alignment with the AI which is you do in
the grilling session initially.
Let's have one more question. You got
any more? Yeah. How do you get in your
workflow to get it to code the way you
want it to code? So by the time you get
to code review, it's at least familiar,
use the libraries you wanted to use.
>> Yeah. Um, we had this question before
actually, which was like uh how do you
uh enforce your coding standards on the
agent? Essentially, how do you get it to
code how you want it to code? Now,
there's essentially two different ways
of doing it. Um, you've got
Come on. Push
and you've got pull.
What do I mean by push and pull?
Um, push is where you push instructions
to the LLM. So you say, okay, if you put
something in claw.md,
uh, talk like a pirate, that instruction
is always going to be sent to the agent,
right? So that is a push action. You're
pushing tokens to it. Pull is where you
give the agent an opportunity to pull
more information.
And
that's for instance like skills. So a
skill is something that can sit in the
repo and it has a little description
header that says okay agent you may pull
this when you want to.
My thinking my current thinking about
code review and about coding standards
looks like this. when you have an
implement.
What's going on? There we go.
Implementer.
I'm going to make this less red in a
second. Um, then you want the coding
standards to be available via pull. If
it has a question, you want it to be
able to sort of answer it. But if you
then have an automated reviewer
afterwards, then you want it to push.
You want to push that information to the
reviewer. You want to say, "These are
our coding standards." um make sure that
this code um follows them. So if you
have skills for instance, then you want
to push that stuff to the reviewer so
the reviewer has both the code that's
written and the coding standards to
compare to.
Hopefully that answers your question. I
can show you an automated version of
this as well. Actually, um yeah, let's
do that now just while it's fresh in my
mind. I recently um spent
uh maybe a week or so uh building this
thing called Sand Castle. And Sand
Castle is a I was sort of unhappy with
the options out there for
um running agents AFK. And what this
does is it's essentially a TypeScript
library for running these loops. So you
have uh a run function that creates a
work tree um sandboxes it in a docker
container and then allows you to run a
prompt inside there. And in that work
tree then it's just a git branch and you
have that code and you can then merge it
later. If I open up
um there are some really really nice
ways of viewing this and it essentially
allows you to run these kind of
automated loops and allows you to
parallelize across multiple different
agents really simply. So I'll go into my
sand castle file go into main.ts here
and let's just walk through this.
So this is kind of like I showed you um
a sort of version of the Ralph loop
earlier. This is where we take it from
sequential into parallel.
We have here first of all a planner that
takes in it's has a plan prompt here
that looks at the backlog and chooses a
certain number of issues to work on in
parallel. Remember I showed you that
canon board where it had all the
blocking relationships. It works out all
of the phases. So this one will say okay
uh let's say we have uh you can ignore
all this glue code here. This is
essentially just a set of issues, GitHub
issues with a title and with a a branch
for you to work on. And then for each
issue, we create a sandbox
and then we run an implement in that
sandbox passing in the issue number,
issue title and the branch. This is like
the loop that we ran just before.
Then if it created some commits, we then
review those commits. This is
essentially the loop. What do we do with
those commits? We pass those into a
merger agent
which takes in a merge prompt, takes in
the branches that were created, takes in
the issues, and it just merges them in.
If there are any issues with the merge,
you know, with the types and tests and
that kind of thing, it solves them. And
this has been my uh flow for quite a
while now for working on most projects.
It works super super well. And uh yeah,
I recommend you check out sand castle if
you want to sort of learn more. And to
answer your question properly is that in
the reviewer
uh I would push the coding standards in
the implement I would allow it to pull.
And I'm actually using uh sonet for
implementation and opus for um reviewing
because I consider reviewing sort of I
need I need the smarts. Then
any question? Actually, let let me uh
before we do more questions, let's go
back here. Okay, where are we at? Okay,
we're sort of zooming everywhere in this
uh talk because I'm kind of having to
run things in parallel. So, let's go
back to the improved codebase
architecture. It has finally finished
running and it's found a bunch of
architectural improvement candidates. So
it's got essentially a cluster of
different modules that are all kind of
related that could probably be tested as
a unit. Got number one the quiz scoring
service. There's some reordering logic
extraction as well. It has arguments for
why they're coupled and it has a
dependency category as well. So local
substitutable in SQLite within memory
test DB
quiz scoring service currently has zero
test. This is the biggest gap. So this
is what it looks like when we come back
of uh improved codebase architecture.
Okay.
So we have nominally kind of 17 minutes
left. I don't know about you, but I'm
knackered. [laughter]
Um I want to
[clears throat]
let let me kind of sum up for you
because I think we're sort of reaching
the end of our stamina. I'm going to be
available for the full time if you want
to um come and ask me questions. Um, I
might do one more check of the slider,
but let's kind of sum up where we've got
to.
So,
this is essentially the flow
where throughout this whole process,
we're bearing in mind the shape of our
codebase. This is not a specttocode
compiler. This is not an AI that's sort
of just like churning out code. We are
being very intentional with the kind of
modules and the shape of the codebase
that we want. We are making sure that we
are as aligned as possible by using the
grilling session by really hammering out
our idea. We're not overindexing into
the PRD. We're not trying to read every
part of it. We're not thinking too much
about it even. We're then just turning
that into a set of parallelizable issues
which can be worked on by agents in
parallel. We implement it and we QA and
code review the hell out of it and then
keep going back to that implementation.
One thing I didn't really mention is
that in the QA phase, what the QA phase
is for is creating more issues for that
canon board. So while it's implementing
even, you can be QAing the stuff and
going back adding more issues. And the
canon board just allows you to add
blocking issues kind of um sort of
infinitely really. And then once that's
all done, once you've got code that
you're happy with, once you've got work
that you're happy with, then you can
share it with your team and you can get
a full review. So this is kind of like
once you get here, this is kind of one
developer or maybe a couple of
developers sort of managing this and
then it's kind of up to you to figure
out how to merge it back in.
[sighs]
Of course, all of this can be customized
by you. This is just something that I
have found works. I'm not trying to like
sell you on a kind of approach here.
What I recommend if you take one thing
away from this session is that you
should head back you should head to
Amazon and just buy a ton of those old
books because I mean I just found it so
enlightening reading them. Uh you know
preai writing is always like a really
fun to read anyway and
I just on every single page I found that
there was something useful and something
interesting to to read. So thank you so
much. Thank you for putting up with the
heat. Um hopefully your body
temperatures will reset soon. Uh thank
you very much. [applause]
[music]